
Hello everyone,
 
We would like to share some additional answers to questions that many of you have sent us regarding CW3. Please read these answers carefully:
 
1. What amount of AI usage is permitted for CW3?
We would like to remind you that use of generative AI for this assignment beyond what is considered "non-substantive use" (i.e., minor editing, etc.) is strictly prohibited. This means that you can only use AI for minor tasks such as editing (e.g., editing your written report, editing comments in your code, etc.). You may not use AI to produce your solution, and you must be able to understand, explain, and justify your solution, including which libraries you used, how you structured your code, and why you wrote your solution the way you did.
 
Further, and just as importantly, you must document and cite your use of AI, including all of the steps that you took. You should maintain a record of unedited versions of your work prior to processing by AI, which you may be required to provide as part of the verification process. Please see the assignment specifications for more details, and contact us if you are unsure of whether a specific use of AI is allowed or not.
 
Note that the use of AI tools beyond this scope would constitute a breach of the University Academic Integrity Policy, and will result in penalties, which may include an overall mark of zero for the assignment and a formal notification of academic misconduct. The maximum penalty could include expulsion from the university. Also note that it is extremely obvious to us when students are using AI beyond "non-substantive use," so please just don't do it.
 
2. Can we use AI to help us write and organize comments in our code?
Yes, as long as you disclose that you are doing this, and the steps that you took.
 
3. Can we use switch statements?
Yes. We will cover this briefly next lecture (Week 12).
 
4. How do we install and use JavaFX?
Here's documentation on how to get started with JavaFX, including how to install it for IntelliJ, NetBeans, Eclipse, and VS Code. You can also find on Learning Mall a tutorial document and videos in Chinese for installing JavaFX for IntelliJ and NetBeans. The TAs will also help you with installing and using JavaFX in Week 12.
 
5. Are we allowed to use Javadoc for documenting our code?
You can use Javadoc if you wish, as long as your code is written and documented by yourself. Any AI usage beyond minor edits is strictly prohibited.
 
6. Are we allowed to use sorting methods (e.g., sorting maps, lists, etc.)?
Sorting is not a requirement nor is it a suggested advanced feature for this assignment. Therefore, you should not need to implement sorting in your assignment.
 
7. Can we use map.entry, entryset to traverse maps? Or only use keyset?
Both are fine.
 
8. Can we use String.join?
Yes.
 
9. Can we use web-based applications as GUIs (instead of JavaFX)?
Yes, but you need to be able to explain every line of code that you've written.
 
10. Can we use abstract classes and interfaces (for JavaFX)?
You may use and/or extend existing abstract classes (e.g., JavaFX classes like Application or Node). You may also use and/or implement existing interfaces (e.g., List). But you cannot create your own new abstract classes or interfaces -- and you should not need to do these for the assignment.
 
11. To make the command-line interface output cleaner and more user-friendly, we would like to use the String.format() method. Although this specific method was not explicitly covered in the lectures, may we use it to improve the presentation of our program?
Yes, this is fine.
 
12. Regarding the movie ID format: since the "M" in the movie IDs does not serve any practical purpose, is it permissible to modify the movie IDs to pure numerical (int) format to improve retrieval efficiency and user experience?
Yes, this is allowed.
 
Thank you,
CPT111 Teaching Team (Teng, Erick, Brennan)
Hello everyone,
 
We would like to share with you answers to questions that many of you have sent us regarding CW3. Please read these answers carefully:
 
1. Are we allowed to handle exceptions from the java.io package? Can we create and use our own custom exceptions?
Yes, it is okay to use any exception. You can even create your own custom exceptions if you wish.
 
2. Can we use both List/ArrayList and Map/HashMap? Or just ArrayList and HashMap.
Yes, you can use either or both.
 
3. Are all classes in java.io usable (not just BufferedReader)?
No, you are only permitted to use the I/O classes that were taught in Week 10 (BufferedReader, Scanner, PrintWriter, etc.). In fact, these are the only ones that you need for this assignment.
 
4. When implementing the GUI (advanced feature), can we run the GUI run simultaneously with the command line, or selectively after the command line pops up?
Ideally, if you implement a GUI, it should run by itself without the command line. If you do this, you may get higher marks than if you have both.
 
5. Can we use StringBuilder explicitly in our code?
No, using just String is more than enough to complete this assignment.
 
6. Can we use java.time.LocalDate to get the current date/time?
Yes, this is fine.
 
7. Can we use the java.util.Iterator class directly?
No, iterating with just array indices and a loop is enough.
 
8. Can we use System.err.print to display error messages?
No, just use System.out.println
 
9. Can we use JavaFX to implement the GUI (advanced feature)? Can we use all of the packages in JavaFX?
Yes, you can use JavaFX and all of its packages. You will learn about JavaFX in Week 12.
 
10. Can we use lambda functions/expressions?
No, and you don't need to.
 
11. Can we use java.security.MessageDigest for hashing/encrypting the user's password?
No. Because this is an advanced feature for extra marks, you are expected to implement your own encryption or hashing function. Even a very basic encryption function with weaker security than industry-level encryption would be acceptable.
 
12. Can we create and use Records?
No, you don't need to use this, and are not permitted to use this.
 
13. Can we create and use Interfaces
No, and you don't need to create new interfaces for this assignment.
 
14. Can we create and use enum?
No, and you don't need to use enums for this assignment.
 
15. The CW3 instructions specify that only certain Java libraries are permitted. If we intend to include an optional extension feature that involves importing a library outside the approved list , would this be acceptable provided that the core implementation fully adheres to the assignment requirements?
No. For the advanced features, you can only use the libraries and knowledge you have learned in the course.
 
16. To better support group collaboration, our team plans to structure the project into several Java files, where each file implements one key function (such as login system, movie list, watch list, and recommendation system), and a single Main.java file will coordinate and call these components. Could you please confirm if this project structure is acceptable?
Yes. The standard practice in Java programming is to split your files by class (i.e., create a separate file for each class). So, yes, it is not only acceptable, but also recommended that you structure your project into files like this.
 
17. The assignment requires the use of Java libraries introduced in the course. May we use wildcard import statements like "java.util.*"? This can reduce the number of import lines and make the code more concise.
Yes, you can use this.
 
18. Regarding the bonus points rule for advanced features, we would like to confirm: Is the score the same for implementing two additional advanced features versus five additional ones? In other words, is the score related to the number of advanced features?
The bonus marks you receive for implementing extra advanced features depends not only on how many advanced features you implement, but also on the quality of their implementation. The maximum bonus marks you can possibly receive is 10.
 
19. Some movies in the users.csv file appear in both the watchlist and history lists. Should such duplicate data be deleted manually in Excel, removed by the program before the login operation, or ignored directly?
This mimics real world data, which may contain imperfections, noise, etc. You can decide and explain in your written report what your program will do in this case (e.g., delete the duplicate data from the watchlist or history at the beginning, or ignore the duplicate data).
 
Thank you,
CPT111 Teaching Team